tonight Israel's military is claiming
Hamas has lost control of the north of
the territory after weeks of Relentless
Israeli bombing Jeremy Bowen has been
with the Israeli defense forces inside
the territory while the BBC retained
editorial control of his reports the
sections featuring the Israeli military
have been cleared by the
IDF like young soldiers in many wars
Israeli troops looked excited not
apprehensive as they made their final
preparations to join Israel's invasion
of the Gaza
Strip they're moving in as the war
approaches a critical point their
colleagues already inside the strip have
surrounded Gaza City these men might be
part of the next stage locating Hamas
tunnels and fighting Street by Street
Israel's primee Minister promised his
country a mighty Vengeance against Hamas
but with so much Firepower what one
question is Israel following Joe Biden's
advice not to be blinded by rage to
defend itself but also protect the lives
of Palestinian civilians we went into
Gaza with the Israeli Army on condition
we didn't reveal their positions video
shot after they took us through the Gap
in the fence into Gaza though not this
script had to be submitted to their
military census we got out of the back
of an armored vehicle and walked into or
Wasteland after a month of air strikes
and more than a week of tanks and troops
every building I saw was damaged or
destroyed they wanted to show us what
they said was a Hamas weapons Factory in
this wrecked structure this is a scuba
diving equipment that's uh meant to come
from from SE from their land to our
land and they made drones that Dro bombs
he said in this Workshop places like
this he said originated the 7th of
October attacks but upstairs was a
family apartment the soldiers said it
was more proof that Hamas used civilians
as human Shields building bombs
underneath a bedroom used by children
the officer said habas not Israel was
responsible for civilian deaths we know
intelligence we know what we hit we know
the targets they're
approved by the by our Command it's that
I wake up and my my objective is to to
ruin the the city I aim for enemy an
enemy only and I use all in my power to
hit the enemy only so judging by the the
destruction here the enemy was
everywhere you'd say yes
yes Israel's strategic equation measures
the destruction and death it's brought
to Palestinians in Gaza civilians as
well as Hamas against the pain of its
own people
and the importance of making them feel
safe
again The overriding Impressions I have
from being here is first of all the
level of force that Israel has brought
to bear on the Gaza Strip a vast amount
of military power in
addition the level of Destruction
massive destruction thousands of homes
gone Israel says military necessities
self-defense be's view was different she
said it was because of Israel's
bombardment because nowhere was safe
because there was no food or drinking
water for the children and because
Israel had bombed the
bakeries Israel said 50,000 Palestinians
moved South after it promised safe
passage Hamas released more videos of
its fight against Israel in Gaza
streets it claims victories but but it
is vastly
outgun hanas cannot win a toe-to-toe
fight with Israel but guilla tactics hit
and run might drag The War Out for
months and force the seiz fire more
Israeli tanks were moving forward as we
left the Gaza Strip this evening
Israel's Western allies support The
Invasion but America's reminders about
the laws of war and the pressure for
humanitarian pauses suggest even
Israel's closest allies are quizy about
this War's human
catastrophe Jeremy boen BBC news
Gaza Israel clearly tightening its grip
on the territory and we'll hear from
Jeremy uh with a little bit more in a
moment but a warning tonight from the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
saying there should be no Israeli
occupation of Gaza when the current
conflict comes to an end he was speaking
after a meeting of G7 foreign ministers
in Japan and he called for the territory
and the West Bank here to be United
under the Palestinian
Authority it's also clear that Israel
cannot occupy Gaza um now the reality is
that there may be uh a need for some
transition period uh at the end of the
conflict but it is imperative that um
the Palestinian people uh be Central to
uh to governance uh in uh in G
and in the West Bank as well Anthony
blinkin speaking earlier today let's
return to Jeremy who's there now in
southern Israel but as we've seen has
been with Israeli forces inside Gaza
Jeremy I don't think there's anyone who
believes the Hamas are going to win this
war clearly the Americans are looking
towards the end game when the fighting
is over and that was a very clear
warning how do you think things could
pan out once the conflict comes to an
end
first of all don't forget Hamas probably
have a different definition of victory
to Israel if they can keep fighting as
far as they're concerned they won't be
beaten I think that once the fighting
stops through whatever means then
perhaps the really difficult part starts
because the Palestinians will still be
there the problem will still be there
who will run the territory the Israelis
have said Mr Netanyahu the prime
minister has said they want to retain
security control so that implies some
kind of Palestinian governance which
Palestinians would like to do that on
Israel's say so the Americans believe
the only way forward is to move towards
that old idea the old failed idea up to
now of a two-state solution in other
words independent Palestine alongside
Israel now this current Israeli
government is viscerally opposed to such
an o which would for example mean that
it would have to pull back settlers from
the West Bank where at the moment the
settlers it backs are pushing very hard
against the Palestinians and the
Palestinians say that they're running
riot